in this series and we surprise you and
you strip away any of the complexity and
hard graft and teach you how to cook
amazing food standing on your head that
is amazing
incredibly tender from the kitchen
novice to the budding chef I'm gonna
give you the confidence the recipes and
the insider knowledge to make you a much
better cook slicer out wasting nothing
I've been cooking in professional
kitchens for over 25 years what is
occurring now I've been taught by some
of the best chefs in the world and in
turn I've taught some of the best now
I'm gonna show you some simple and
accessible recipes for fantastic food
that you can easily cook at home ok I'll
be holding you by the hand
let's get better and better and better
teach you everything from how to cook
with chili and spice to baking real fast
food and my ultimate beast recipes this
is the only cookery course we'll ever
need welcome to my optimal cookery
course with cooking tips information and
100 recipes to stay in your life on the
frying pan is one of your best friends
it's so versatile in the kitchen
learning to use it with these is a must
and I'm gonna show you how first up my
delicious pan-fried pork chops with
sweet and sour peppers
whether it's in the restaurant or even
at home one of my golden rules for
producing fantastic food is learning to
cook with confidence this recipe is so
straightforward but tastes absolutely
amazing pan on get that nice and hot you
think of the sort of density of a pork
chop how it needs a little bit of health
sweet sound peppers don't burn any well
first slice the peppers that's the flat
side of the pepper so stand it up try to
slice a pepper on the side is a
nightmare there's the center start off
it's almost like sort of peeling an
orange all the way around and down and
look this one now place the pepper down
three-finger rule one thing you're in
front two behind pinkie holding it down
thumb holding it nice and flat the flat
of the vegetables the more confident you
are when you slice sir don't worry about
the speed just let the knife do the work
and take your time
speed tons the most important thing is
to get your technique right red onion
now
sweet sour peppers olive oil in
[Music]
I'm going to sew to them which is just
the chef's term for shallow-fried on a
high heat for maximum taste salt and
pepper add a tablespoon of sugar sugar
helps to break down the peppers quicker
but caramelize the onions find them in a
frying pan
perfect there's one of those sort of
basic essential tools of any kitchen
because it's so multi-purpose great for
sewing tossing great for cooking fish
and meat push away and pull back push
away and pull back that hissing is
something you need to hear constantly
because the minute that's gone your
peppers and your onions start to boil
and you really want them to associate
you now start to see you listening in a
way that it's time to caramelize sugar
is working usefully that's ready pour
the red wine vinegar then smells
incredible it helps sustain the peppers
as well but of the glaze now these do
the sugar worked his magic turn down the
gas and out a couple of tables
extra-virgin olive oil let them stew for
two to three minutes
now I want to make the peppers nice and
light and sort of sweet aromatic just
roll the basil almost like a big cigar
slice basil in and then literally cook
it out in 30 seconds and won them off
beautiful okay turn back on and now for
pork chops I wanna make sure they don't
curl up in the pan they start coming up
in the pan they're gonna cook unevenly a
few simple cuts through the Rhine means
the Chop stays flat and cooks evenly put
the knife down flip through this season
of beautifully nice large shards of
pepper punch that through lightly
guaranteed that seasoning is gonna stay
there hot pan Dutch garlic and such a
time and the garlic take a cup of
clothes don't peel it don't chop it just
knife on crush it
olive all in just startin to smoke top
of the chop in lay away from
nice keep that heat in the pan the
garlic in there early and I sprang a
bunch of thyme see how the pork is
staying nice and flat turn it over
whether people want a little bit of
thyme underneath to start squeezing that
garlic out or what the flavor coming out
butter in thin slices of butter tilt the
pan and baste so I'm sort of speeding up
the cooking process at the same time I'm
keeping the pork chop really nice and
moist and now look at the color that
butter it's always those sort of I mean
up Brown check the color on the other
side useful when a that thick between
1/2 to 4 minutes each size very second
from now they're gonna be medium so I'm
gonna take them out and let them rest
the secret to perfectly moist pork chops
is letting them rest almost as long as
they're cooked in the pan
a nice spoon of these peppers basil
smells incredible did that garlic on
there
be generous without vinaigrette from the
pepper because it really is incredible
do two things simple like that pork and
peppers and your conference is going to
shoot through the roof
a stunning pork chop with sweet sour
peppers
the frying pan is so simple but
incredibly useful with this one pan you
can make a million different dishes the
more you cook with your fine pan the
more your confidence will grow here are
three my favorite easy pan-fried dishes
first up pan-fried scallops with crunchy
apple salad get a fire pan smoking hot
essential for quick pan frying add olive
oil
then seasoned scallops with salt and
pepper starting at the top put clockwise
into the pan so you know which one to
turn first
scallops have firm white sweet flesh and
cooking minutes
next salad lamb's lettuce matchsticks
with apple
seasoning
lemon zest and juice
[Music]
[Applause]
at Olive Oyl then toss
[Music]
turn the scallops when Gordon don't
clockwise around the pan
[Applause]
then squeeze in lemon juice and give the
pan a shake finish with lemon zest
ready in under ten minutes my first pan
fried dish scallops with crunchy apple
salad my next super simple pan-fried
recipe is chicken and chicory in masala
sauce season the chicken breasts add to
hot olive oil skin-side down lay away
from you
to stop the all splashing
sliced chicory this versatile vegetable
can be read all white has a lovely
bitter taste and is great cooked or raw
[Music]
crush a clove of garlic and add their
sprigs of thyme
when the chicken skin is crisp turnover
along with the chicory
for the sauce and masala a sweet
fortified wine from Sicily
[Music]
then 150 mil of chicken stock to make
the sauce wander too rich in glossy and
butter and simmer for 10 minutes
plate up and spoon over the sauce cooked
and under 20 minutes chicken and chicory
in masala sauce my final dish cooked in
the versatile frying pan is sea bream
with tomato and herb seller
fry phyllis of sea bream skin side down
in hot olive oil if they buckle up press
gently down for perfect even cooking
then season
sea bream has firm white flesh perfect
for pan frying next the salsa heat olive
oil add half cherry tomatoes pitted
black olives and seasoned
[Music]
after a minute on a low heat add
coriander basil and lemon
[Music]
combined and leave to infuse as a
seabream cooks it goes opaque when it's
2/3 on the top turnover
based fry and it's done
[Music]
seabream with tomato and herb salsa
ready in under 15 minutes one pan free
simple impressive and absolutely
delicious dishes beautiful coming up on
my ultimate cookery course along with a
hundred recipes to stake your life on
I'm gonna give you a hundred quick
cooking tips to make your life in the
kitchen easier
first up how to keep your knife sharp
it's far harder working in the kitchen
with a blunt knife than it is with a
sharp knife the secret behind keeping a
sharp knife sharpen it before and every
time you use it first grip the steel
feel really come to about holding still
imagine you're holding a tennis racket
or you're playing squash he's really
comfortable with it now 45 degrees
confident grip confident grip with a
knife this is the butt of the steel
really important to keep your fingers
behind that you never grip a steel with
your fingers over that because the knife
comes back in you just lost a finger
it's always grip behind nice long
strokes so we get the whole of the blade
over steel stroke and we start from the
bottom to the top so there across there
across throw strokes over the top of the
steel and then come back in to meet send
back underneath it is so dangerous
working in the kitchen with a blunt
knife you can cause so much damage
working with a sharp knife is ten times
quicker more efficient now that's ready
to start chopping
- stop your chopping board rocking or
slipping a great tip is to simply wet a
kitchen cloth kitchen paper or tea towel
and place it underneath now
you can chop with confidence my next top
tip is get the most out of your humble
veg peeler it's brilliant for slicing
ultra-thin ribbons or veg perfect for
Asian dishes great for making long
delicate parmesan shavings to top soups
and salads it also makes wonderful
chocolate curls your Peppermill is more
versatile than you might think
tighten the top screw to get finely
ground pepper ideal for soups and sauces
for general seasoning you want it medium
ground to set the screw in the middle
and loosen it right off for coarse
pepper perfect for steaks and fish
[Music]
peeling garlic the one clove simply bash
it with the back of a knife and the skin
comes off easily for a whole head crush
seperate into a bowl cover and shake
hard for about ten seconds then simply
pick out the pill cloves
[Music]
coming up on my ultimate cookery course
more great cooking tips just hold it
down and your fingers on there's a
really nice way of taking off all those
nice fragrant little thyme flowers how
to shop for the best ingredients your
skin is a nice white color and it smells
like a fresh chicken a smell and a
stunning roast chicken recipe to stake
your life on this is my ultimate cookery
course 100 recipes to stake your life on
I'll be showing you a roast chicken
recipe to die for hold the drum the
sliced a through but first like any good
chef I'm always looking to get great
ingredients at the right price my
shopping mantra is simple first rely on
your senses
make sure whatever you're buying it
looks smells and really feels good as
you get the chance taste it before you
buy it
second is to recognize that knowledge is
crucial the more you know about where
your ingredients come from and how they
produce the better so asked lots of
questions and learn
you're never too old to learn from
experts and when it comes to buying
great birds the one person knows what to
look for is award-winning
fifth-generation master butcher Danny
Lydgate poultry is a great meats because
there's many different types of birds
it's worth tasting the variation of
flavors between different first two firs
is massive Turkey's a great lean meat
that's available all year round not just
for christmas
anybody who's worried about eating fatty
meats it's a really healthy flavorsome
meal game birds people don't try them
often enough once their shots they're
hung up for a little while a few days at
least
it means the meats going to be more
tender all adds of flavor to the birds
we've got a wood pigeon and a red leg
Partridge both really good and cook
really quickly when you're buying a
chicken some of things to look out for
is obviously the smell and when you're
smelling a good quality chicken you can
tell the difference the skins are nice
white color and it smells like a fresh
chicken II smell when you're buying from
a good blood show you'll find you tend
to get the giblets as well which is
basically the neck and other organs this
is great for making gravy
once you have cooked it you can use all
the offcuts for other things stir Fry's
Curry's pass the dishes save the bones
use the bones for stocks and soaps a
really packed full of flavor and
remember there are lots of different
breeds of chicken all have different
characteristics and flavors so shop
around and find the ones you love here
are three of my all-time favorites the
label Anglais these come from an old
British breed they've got smaller
breasts but the meats delicious the
black leg a fantastic French variety
succulent with bags of flavor and really
meaty thighs and the pulley device this
is the rolls-royce of chickens rich
gamey and delicious one for special
occasions
I think people should maybe try and buy
less meat but aim for the best quality
you're only going to get out what you
put in by putting the best quality into
a dish you're going to get the best
results no matter how seasoned the chef
you are there are always new ingredients
and recipes to get fired up about
so if a tired old recipe is getting you
down
spice it up with fresh ideas and flavors
my next recipe is an old classic roast
chicken but with a simple twist it takes
on a new life and is guaranteed to
impress one of the things I love about
cooking and that keeps me excited after
25 years behind the stove is that
there's always something new to learn
every day new ingredients new techniques
and new cuisines start off with a
stuffing
it's amazing how exciting I stuffed
roast chicken can be because it keeps
the chicken incredibly moist and gives a
delicious texture inside the bird I'm
going to start off with cured sorriso
this is a traditional Spanish sausage
and it's garlicky spicy incredibly meaty
that gives a little bit of sort of
richness to the stuffing get our Reaser
in start cooking that down and get all
those oils out a touch of olive oil in
there to get it going right onions
chopped
add the onions to the Sarita and in a
matter of seconds they'll change color
as they soak up all the flavor but
lovely spiciness has been stolen from
that sausage now the onions smell
incredible garlic garlic in fresh thyme
just hold it down and your fingers on
there it's really nice why I've taken
off all those nice fragrant little thyme
flowers you can hear it crackling in the
background
these are kyleannie beans in their waxy
very soft and so delicious bubbling very
dense but for stuffing they're so robust
nothing breaks down drain them off
in they're going to take on all that
juice as well from this freezer or
season now because if they dense so need
some help that looks like it's a dish on
its own I'm good enough to eat now or
sweeten things up a little bit
tomatoes half tried in that sweetens up
the stuffing beautiful the stuffing is
ready
look at the color everything but Spanish
it looks delicious
now stuffing the chicken I like taking
off these little knuckles as the chicken
cooks the skin stretches over the bone
you can get a really nice drum and take
off those little wing tips as well
salt pepper so important now your
stuffing we go right inside which you
can push it down this really helps to
cook the bird evenly because you're
pushing out all the empty spaces in the
carcass and take a nice large lemon push
the lemon in pick up the parcels nose
put the skin over olive oil on top salt
and pepper teaspoon of paprika sprinkle
it on and then put your hands sort of
rub that in you see what the paprika is
doing to the chicken put this like sweet
spicy marinade its lightly roasted yet
but it looks delicious 400 mil of wine
while same quantity of water that helps
the chicken to steamed chicken in be
generous with the thyme sprigs
[Music]
make sure the fall is folded tightly
around the roasting tray so the chickens
themes in the oven keeping it moist and
juicy into the oven
[Music]
cook for 1 hour at 180 degrees with a
foil on nice take it out and remove the
fall lid then give it another 30 minutes
to crisp up that skin it's so important
to make sure you tear that tinfoil off
with half an hour to go beautiful pierce
the open squeeze it in that delicious
gravy mix that into the tray and sip
that that's a really nice fragrant
lemony spiced roasting juices to finish
before we cut up the chicken take out an
amazing stuffing mm-hmm incredible
I'll have that which you can / potatoes
any day and then just get your chicken
roasting juices now to cut the chicken
out hold the drum the slice straight
through
and there's a wonderful drum and a thigh
through the wishbone off slice with the
point at an angle so you can see the
texture that amazing roast chicken
just take my cooking juices so I give
you nice sort of lemony flavor over my
chicken and there you go a delicious
very charming stuffed roast chicken
[Music]
follow my ultimate cookery course
crammed with key lessons top tips and a
hundred recipes to stake your life on
and you'll literally be cooking yourself
into a better chef
many of these amazing recipes are on my
app please check out the App Store for
details go on get cooking